RBAC Documentation 

1) Introduction -
This document covers the Role Based Access Control feature for the Config Backup for F5 
program introduced in version 3.1. It gives a very high level overview of the major components
of the feature and slightly more detailed description. It won't explain the whole process flow
of each component but is rather intended as an aid to give the big picture and will help the 
reader be better able to understand the logic from code comments.

2) High Level Overview
RBAC consists of the following components -

   2.1) UI DB tables - The UI DB contains several tables that are used for RBAC.
   
   2.2) Login page - The login page is responsible for pulling the user/groups role ID and 
      assign inserting it into the user's session variable array.
      
   2.3) Role array - The role array goes at the top of every page that need RBAC. Id contains
      the IDs for any group that is allowed access to the page.
   
   2.4) Session include file - The session include file has a section that is responsible for
      the enforcement of RBAC based upon the groups contained in the role array.
   
   2.5) Default page - Provides the access denied message to the user.
   
   2.6) User/Auth group web UI pages - These pages allow the assignment of roles to local users
      or auth groups.
   
3) Detailed Description   
   
   3.1) UI DB tables - 
      The UI DB contains a table "ROLES" that contains the ID and name for each role. The role 
      IDs is an integer. This table is only used to provide names for the header and user/group 
      role assignment but does not is not used in the enforcement of role permissions. The 
      local user table "USERS" and the AD auth group table "AUTHGROUPS" contain a column for 
      the role ID assignment of the user/group.
      
   
   3.2) Login page - 
      The login page was extended to assign roles to the user and insert the role variable to
      session array. For local authentication, the page will do a DB query for the users password
      hash and role. For AD auth the login page will get the role once the role from the 
      user's auth group that matches it's AD memberOf group. Once the the password has been 
      authenticated it will assign the role ID to the user's session array role parameter.
      
   3.3) Role array - 
      The role array is placed at the top of any page that needs RBAC restrictions. The role 
      array contains the role ID integers for permitted roles. If the page has no role 
      restrictions then it is not needed.
   
   3.4) Session include file - 
      The session was extended to handle the enforcement of RBAC. If the role array is present 
      in the page that it was included with then it look to see if the role ID of the user from 
      the session array is in the role array. If so then it allows the user to continue. If not
      then it forces a redirect to the index page with error params set in the URI and then
      does a die to stop any other code from being executed. 
   
   3.5) Index page -
      The default index page was extended to display access denied messages after an session 
      file redirect. The session redirect will include the page that the user was denied access
      to. The error message from the index page will tell the user that page.
   
   3.6) User/Auth group web UI pages -       
      These pages were extended to include the role in the user/auth group creation and 
      modification. The pages contain an function to build the role dropdown box where the 
      text role is display but the role ID integer is the actual POST value that gets inserted
      into the DB.
